Explain It!
Keksippäs!

Rules:
In all of the gamemodes listed below players take turns explaining a correlation between one of their item cards and event cards usually something that could happen in the situation,
other players decide if the explanation was clever, good or funny for them and award them with the event card as a point.
Games end either when cards run out or players decide on a good situation to end the game.
At the end of the game players can count up their collected event cards to see who got the most.

Gamemodes:
Travel mode
Recommended 2-4 players
Each player always has at least 3 item cards (and/or whichever cards)
Players take turns picking event cards from a deck and using one of their items to come up with an explanation, other players decide if they get the point (if accepted player gets to keep the event card).

Round table
Recommended over 2 players
Each player always has at least 3 item cards (and/or whichever cards)
8 event cards are placed on a table in a circle formation.
Players take turns going around the circle clockwise by throwing a die. (starting from closest event)
When a player lands on a card they have to choose one of the items to come up with a clever, good or funny explanation what could happen in the situation.

All on same bus
Recommended 2-8 players
A variation where all players are "all on the same bus", all players try come up with their best explanations and players decide who gets the point.

Dice game
Recommended 2-8 players
A variation to all modes where players have to throw the dice to decide what type of explanation they'll have to come up with
1: a true statement
2: a false statement
3: an event that has happened to the player
4: a whimsical story
5: ...?
6: ...?

0.1+ rokua card images edited by zeezaa distributed individually with same license as image used. (see credits list)
Explain It! © 2022 by zeezaa is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/